 Trace Context Trace Context W3C Recommendation 23 November 2021 More details about this document This version: https://www.w3.org/TR/2021/REC-trace-context-1-20211123/ Latest published version: https://www.w3.org/TR/trace-context-1/ Latest editor's draft: https://w3c.github.io/trace-context/ History: https://www.w3.org/standards/history/trace-context-1 Commit history Implementation report: https://github.com/w3c/trace-context/#reference-implementations Editors: Sergey Kanzhelev ( Microsoft ) Morgan McLean ( Google ) Alois Reitbauer ( Dynatrace ) Bogdan Drutu ( Google ) Nik Molnar ( Microsoft ) Yuri Shkuro ( Invited Expert ) Feedback: GitHub w3c/trace-context ( pull requests , new issue , open issues ) public-trace-context@w3.org with subject line trace-context ( archives ) Errata: Errata exists . Discussions We are on Gitter. See also translations . Copyright © 2021 W3C ® ( MIT , ERCIM , Keio , Beihang ). W3C liability , trademark and permissive document license rules apply. Abstract This specification defines standard HTTP headers and a value format to propagate context information that enables distributed tracing scenarios. The specification standardizes how context information is sent and modified between services. Context information uniquely identifies individual requests in a distributed system and also defines a means to add and propagate provider-specific context information. Status of This Document This section describes the status of this document at the time of its publication. A list of current W3C publications and the latest revision of this technical report can be found in the W3C technical reports index at https://www.w3.org/TR/. This specification includes editorial updates since the 6 February 2020 W3C Recommendation. This document was published by the Distributed Tracing Working Group as a Recommendation using the Recommendation track . W3C recommends the wide deployment of this specification as a standard for the Web. A W3C Recommendation is a specification that, after extensive consensus-building, is endorsed by W3C and its Members, and has commitments from Working Group members to royalty-free licensing for implementations. This document was produced by a group operating under the 1 August 2017 W3C Patent Policy . W3C maintains a public list of any patent disclosures made in connection with the deliverables of the group; that page also includes instructions for disclosing a patent. An individual who has actual knowledge of a patent which the individual believes contains Essential Claim(s) must disclose the information in accordance with section 6 of the W3C Patent Policy . This document is governed by the 2 November 2021 W3C Process Document . Table of Contents Abstract Status of This Document 1. Conformance 2. Overview 2.1 Problem Statement 2.2 Solution 2.3 Design Overview 3. Trace Context HTTP Headers Format 3.1 Relationship Between the Headers 3.2 Traceparent Header 3.2.1 Header Name 3.2.2 traceparent Header Field Values 3.2.2.1 version 3.2.2.2 version-format 3.2.2.3 trace-id 3.2.2.4 parent-id 3.2.2.5 trace-flags 3.2.2.5.1 Sampled flag 3.2.2.5.2 Other Flags 3.2.3 Examples of HTTP traceparent Headers 3.2.4 Versioning of traceparent 3.3 Tracestate Header 3.3.1 Header Name 3.3.1.1 tracestate Header Field Values 3.3.1.2 list 3.3.1.3 list-members 3.3.1.3.1 Key 3.3.1.3.2 Value 3.3.1.4 Combined Header Value 3.3.1.5 tracestate Limits: 3.3.2 Examples of tracestate HTTP Headers 3.3.3 Versioning of tracestate 3.4 Mutating the traceparent Field 3.5 Mutating the tracestate Field 4. Processing Model 4.1 Processing Model for Working with Trace Context 4.2 No traceparent Received 4.3 A traceparent is Received 4.4 Alternative Processing 5. Other Communication Protocols 6. Privacy Considerations 6.1 Privacy of traceparent field 6.2 Privacy of tracestate field 6.3 Other risks 7. Security Considerations 7.1 Information Exposure 7.2 Denial of Service 7.3 Other Risks 8. Considerations for trace-id field generation 8.1 Uniqueness of trace-id 8.2 Randomness of trace-id 8.3 Handling trace-id for compliant platforms with shorter internal identifiers 8.4 Interoperating with existing systems which use shorter identifiers A. Acknowledgments B. Glossary C. References C.1 Normative references 1. Conformance As well as sections marked as non-normative, all authoring guidelines, diagrams, examples, and notes in this specification are non-normative. Everything else in this specification is normative. The key words MAY , MUST , MUST NOT , SHOULD , and SHOULD NOT in this document are to be interpreted as described in BCP 14 [ RFC2119 ] [ RFC8174 ] when, and only when, they appear in all capitals, as shown here. 2. Overview 2.1 Problem Statement Distributed tracing is a methodology implemented by tracing tools to follow, analyze and debug a transaction across multiple software components. Typically, a distributed trace traverses more than one component which requires it to be uniquely identifiable across all participating systems. Trace context propagation passes along this unique identification. Today, trace context propagation is implemented individually by each tracing vendor. In multi-vendor environments, this causes interoperability problems, like: Traces that are collected by different tracing vendors cannot be correlated as there is no shared unique identifier. Traces that cross boundaries between different tracing vendors can not be propagated as there is no uniformly agreed set of identification that is forwarded. Vendor specific metadata might be dropped by intermediaries. Cloud platform vendors, intermediaries and service providers, cannot guarantee to support trace context propagation as there is no standard to follow. In the past, these problems did not have a significant impact as most applications were monitored by a single tracing vendor and stayed within the boundaries of a single platform provider. Today, an increasing number of applications are highly distributed and leverage multiple middleware services and cloud platforms. This transformation of modern applications calls for a distributed tracing context propagation standard. 2.2 Solution The trace context specification defines a universally agreed-upon format for the exchange of trace context propagation data - referred to as trace context . Trace context solves the problems described above by providing an unique identifier for individual traces and requests, allowing trace data of multiple providers to be linked together. providing an agreed-upon mechanism to forward vendor-specific trace data and avoid broken traces when multiple tracing tools participate in a single transaction. providing an industry standard that intermediaries, platforms, and hardware providers can support. A unified approach for propagating trace data improves visibility into the behavior of distributed applications, facilitating problem and performance analysis. The interoperability provided by trace context is a prerequisite to manage modern micro-service based applications. 2.3 Design Overview Trace context is split into two individual propagation fields supporting interoperability and vendor-specific extensibility: traceparent describes the position of the incoming request in its trace graph in a portable, fixed-length format. Its design focuses on fast parsing. Every tracing tool MUST properly set traceparent even when it only relies on vendor-specific information in tracestate tracestate extends traceparent with vendor-specific data represented by a set of name/value pairs. Storing information in tracestate is optional. Tracing tools can provide two levels of compliant behavior interacting with trace context: At a minimum they MUST propagate the traceparent and tracestate headers and guarantee traces are not broken. This behavior is also referred to as forwarding a trace. In addition they CAN also choose to participate in a trace by modifying the traceparent header and relevant parts of the tracestate header containing their proprietary information. This is also referred to as participating in a trace. A tracing tool can choose to change this behavior for each individual request to a component it is monitoring. 3. Trace Context HTTP Headers Format This section describes the binding of the distributed trace context to traceparent and tracestate HTTP headers. 3.1 Relationship Between the Headers The traceparent header represents the incoming request in a tracing system in a common format, understood by all vendors. Here’s an example of a traceparent header. traceparent: 00-0af7651916cd43dd8448eb211c80319c-b7ad6b7169203331-01 The tracestate header includes the parent in a potentially vendor-specific format: tracestate: congo=t61rcWkgMzE For example, say a client and server in a system use different tracing vendors: Congo and Rojo. A client traced in the Congo system adds the following headers to an outbound HTTP request. traceparent: 00-0af7651916cd43dd8448eb211c80319c-b7ad6b7169203331-01 trac